In this demo, I will show you
how to work with pod presets.
First, I need to launch my cluster
with some extra arguments, because these
pod presets are still the alpha.
I'm running 1.10.0-beta.1.
It's the latest version available,
not even the stale version and pod presets
are still alpha in this one.
It might take a few more versions
before they will come out of alpha status.
So, I have directory here, pod-presets
and first I'm going to create the cluster again.
I'm gonna create cluster with node contour
and then the cluster configuration has been created
and to edit this cluster we can use kops edit cluster.
That's what we need, because if we have look
at the README in the PodPresets,
we need to add this specification for the kubeAPIServer,
to enable the pod preset in the enableAdmissionPlugins,
and to enable the alpha feature.
So, let's do kops edit cluster
is at the state and then we need to add this specifications.
So let's copy this.
Let's have a look if it already exists.
This kubeAPI, it doesn't exist yet,
so we'll just add it at the bottom.
This spec, I don't need, because this comes from,
because this is already set here.
Then make sure that the indentation is correct,
so it's here two spaces and it's here two spaces.
kubeAPIServer, enableAdmissionPlugins,
we have the PodPreset here, and we have the runtimeConfig.
Settings, settings for this API
v1alpha1 is going to be enabled.
Going to save this and then we can start a cluster,
using kops update cluster --yes
and, again, the state.
After it's set up, we have to wait five
to 10 minutes before the DNS updates.
Let's check whether the cluster is up now.
And, okay, the cluster isn't running.
Let's have a look at this pod-presets.ymal
and the deployments.yaml.
Pod-presets.yaml, so this is off.
kind: PodPreset, using this apiVersion.
So, it's very similar as what I showed you in the theory.
I have a selector, I'm going to match app
equals myapp in the labels and I'm going to make sure
that the pods that match will get an environment variable
of volumeMounts and a volume defined in the pod.
I then have deployments, I have two deployments
and they are just regular deployments
with the label app: myapp, but they don't
have any environment, they don't have any volume defined.
That will be the pod preset that's going to inject
that into these two deployments.
Let's create this pod-preset.
If we do kubectl get podpresets
then we see now we have our pod-preset
created in kubernetes.
Now, whenever we create a deployment using label app: myapp,
then you will see these resources injected in the pods.
Let's have a look at the pods.
Three pods per deployment, let's have a look.
kubectl describe pod and name of the pod,
our pipe is true less.
And let's have a look at this.
ContainerCreating still, but as you can see
we have the Environment: MY_SECRET: 123456,
so it injected our secret and it also
created our Mount /share from share-volume
and share-volume is defined in the pod.
We have a share-volume of Type: EmptyDir.
So, this injection worked and if you were to check
other pods, then you should all see the same.
Let's have a look at one of deployment 2.
And here, as well, Environment: MY_SECRET,
the Mount, and the share-volume.
So, this is an easy way to inject resources
to multiple pods that share the same
set of config, or the same volumes,
or the same environment variables.
As long as no conflict, your presets will be injected.
That's it for this demo.
You can try it out yourself.
Just keep in mind that this is still an alpha feature,
so it's best to wait until this goes to beta or stable,
until it uses the production cluster.
I would say you can always test it,
but then make sure that you have a much more
recent version of the cluster, as I have.
Right now, this is the latest version,
but in a couple of months there will be new versions.
At some point it will definitely be stable.